Add documentation for the Browser Log Collection (#4367)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/logs/log_collection/javascript.md

---
title: Browser Log Collection
kind: documentation
aliases:
  - /logs/log_collection/web_browser
further_reading:
- link: "logs/processing"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn how to process your logs"
- link: "logs/processing/parsing"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn more about parsing"
- link: "logs/explorer"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn how to explore your logs"
- link: "logs/explorer/analytics"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Perform Log Analytics"
- link: "logs/faq/log-collection-troubleshooting-guide"
  tag: "FAQ"
  text: "Log Collection Troubleshooting Guide"
---

> Send logs to Datadog from web browsers or other Javascript client thanks to the Datadog Client-side JavaScript logging library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Send logs to Datadog from web browsers or other Javascript client thanks to the Datadog `datadog-logs` Client-side JavaScript logging library.
```

> With the `datadog-logs` library you are able to send log directory to Datadog from JS clients and leverage the following features:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the `datadog-logs` library you are able to send log directory to Datadog from JS clients and leverage its following features:
```

> With the `browser-agent-core` library you are able to send log directory to Datadog from JS clients and leverage the following features:

Reviewer 2: `browser-agent-core` is maybe not relevant anymore since we change the file name to `datadog-logs`

Author: Good point, forgot to change the name of the library when I updated the link. Will do

* Use the library as a logger. Everything is forwarded to Datadog as JSON documents.

> * Add `context` and extra attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add `context` and extra attributes to each logs sent.
```

> * Forward every JavaScript errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Wraps and forwards every JavaScript errors automatically.
```

* Forward JavaScript's console logs.

> * Track real client IP address and useragent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Record real client IP address and user agent.
```

> * Automatic bulk posts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Optimised network usage with automatic bulk posts.
```

## Get the Public API Key

> **Public API Keys are in Private Beta** 

Reviewer 3: how will they get access to the beta? a request to the support team?

Author: Yes request to support team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Public API Keys are in Private Beta** Reach out to [Datadog support team](/help) to get it enabled for your Account.
```

> For security reasons, [API keys][2] cannot be used as they would be exposed in the Javascript code. To collect Logs from web browsers, a [Public API keys][3] must be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For security reasons, [API keys][2] cannot be used to configure the `datadog-logs` library as they would be exposed client side in the Javascript code. To collect Logs from web browsers, a [Public API keys][3] must be used.
```

To manage your Public API keys, go to your [Datadog API configuration page][4] in the `Public API Key` section as shown here:

{{< img src="logs/log_collection/public_key.png" style="width:80%;" alt="Public API Keys" responsive="true" >}}

> Read our [Public API keys documentation][3] to learn more about the restrictions that applies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read the [Public API keys documentation][3] to learn more about the restrictions that applies.
```

## Configure the Javascript logger

> The following parameters can be used to configure the library to send logs to Datadog:

Reviewer 3: this is my newby showing, but we should state where it is that you update these parameters

Author: The examples should be right below.

> * Set `isCollectingError` to false to turn off the automatic JS and console error collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Set `isCollectingError` to `false` to turn off the automatic JS and console error collection.
```

* Use `addGlobalContext` to add JSON attribute to all the generated logs

> * Set `publicApiKey` to the value of the Public api_key (**only public api_key can be used in this library**)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Set `publicApiKey` to the value of the Public API key (**only public api_key can be used in this library**)
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "US" %}}

```
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Example to send logs to Datadog</title>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="https://www.datadoghq-browser-agent.com/datadog-logs-us.js"></script>
    <script>
      // Set your Public API key
      Datadog.init({
        publicApiKey: '<PUBLIC_API_KEY>',
        isCollectingError: true,
    });

      // OPTIONAL
      // add global metadata attributes

>       Datadog.addGlobalContext({'session_id': '1234'});

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Datadog.addGlobalContext({'<META_KEY>': '<META_VALUE>'});
```

    </script>
    ...
  </head>
...
</html>
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "EU" %}}

```
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Example to send logs to Datadog</title>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="https://www.datadoghq-browser-agent.com/datadog-logs-eu.js"></script>
    <script>
      // Set your Public API key
      Datadog.init({
        publicApiKey: '<PUBLIC_API_KEY>',
        isCollectingError: true,
    });

      // OPTIONAL
      // add global metadata attributes

>       Datadog.addGlobalContext({'session_id': '1234'});

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Datadog.addGlobalContext({'<META_KEY>': '<META_VALUE>'});
```

    </script>
    ...
  </head>
...
</html>
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Send a custom log entry

> It is then possible to send custom log entries thanks to the `log` function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Send a custom log entries directly to Datadog with the `log` function:
```

```

> Datadog.log(<message>,<json_parameter>,<severity>)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog.log(<MESSAGE>,<JSON_ATTRIBUTES>,<SEVERITY>)
```

Reviewer: @NBParis, just to confirm, JSON_ATTRIBUTES can be a dump of a JSON object that will be send alongside of the message?

```

The accepted severity value are `debug`, `info`, `warn` or `error`.

**Example:**

```
...
<script>
...

> Datadog.log('Button clicked', { name: 'buttonName' });

Reviewer: Shouldn't it be `{ 'name': 'buttonName' }` ?

Author: Apparently not. Will triple check.

---
title: Browser Log Collection
kind: documentation
aliases:
  - /logs/log_collection/web_browser
further_reading:
- link: "logs/processing"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn how to process your logs"
- link: "logs/processing/parsing"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn more about parsing"
- link: "logs/explorer"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn how to explore your logs"
- link: "logs/explorer/analytics"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Perform Log Analytics"
- link: "logs/faq/log-collection-troubleshooting-guide"
  tag: "FAQ"
  text: "Log Collection Troubleshooting Guide"
---

> Send logs to Datadog from web browsers or other Javascript client thanks to the Datadog's `datadog-logs` client-side JavaScript logging library.

Reviewer 4: s/thanks/with/

With the `datadog-logs` library, you can send log directories to Datadog from JS clients and leverage the following features:

* Use the library as a logger. Everything is forwarded to Datadog as JSON documents.
* Add `context` and extra custom attributes to each log sent.
* Wrap and forward every JavaScript error automatically.
* Forward JavaScript's console logs.
* Record real client IP addresses and user agents.
* Optimised network usage with automatic bulk posts.

## Get a Public API Key

<div class="alert alert-warning">
Public API keys are in private beta. <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/">Reach out to support</a> to turn on this feature for your account.
</div>

> For security reasons, [API keys][2] cannot be used to configure the `datadog-logs` library as they would be exposed client-side in the JavaScript code. To collect logs from web browsers, a [public API key][3] must be used.

Reviewer 4: configure seems like the wrong word here. I assume you can't use API keys at all for any purpose, the limitation ins't specific to configuration @NBParis
